#summary About the Project

= Automated Bartender =

This project started out with a simple idea, create a device that could be placed in a home or anyplace where people would like to have a drink but where this is no bartender to make them (although it could also serve as a tool to assist bartenders).  Through many design changes and careful considerations this idea has been materialized in the device that you see below:

+++++++ PICTURE OF FINAL PROJECT +++++++

= Features =

1) 6 bottle holders

2) 3 for different types of alcohol and 3 for different mixers

3) Easy keypad system for ordering drinks

4) Drinks of different strengths (1, 2, or 3 shots)

5) Ability to pour shots without mixing other drinks

6) Ability to pour only mixers if desired

7) Each drink is designed to fill up a solo cup

= How it Works =

There are two different codes I have made for controlling which drink is poured.  One is just a simple two number code for each drink possibility that has to be memorized (or read from a sheet) by  the user.  The other involves a 3 button combination where the first button specifies which alcohol to use, the second button specifies how many shots of that alcohol (up to 3), and the third button is which mixer to use.  When the desired drink combination is input a servo connected to a valve is opened for a set amount of time to let a certain amount of liquid to flow into the cup.

= Video =

+++++++ VIDEO OF FINAL PROJECT +++++++
 
= The Next Step =

Although Version 1.0 of the Automated Bartender fulfilled the goals set forth, there are still different features that I would like to add to Version 2.0.  The limitation that held this version back was cost.  This project was created on a tight budget but with the revenue that is obviously going to be generated from the sales of this device, the sky is the limit for the next version.  First of all I would like to use a touchscreen instead of a keypad.  Doing this would cost close to an extra $100 because an Arduino Mega is needed for the SainSmart 3.2" TFT LCD Display (cheapest touchscreen I could find) and then a ribbon cable to connect them.  I figured with Version 1.0 since a keypad could perform just as well as a touchscreen but only cost $4 it was the way to go.  Also with Version 2.0 I would like to find a way to chill the bottles.  For Version 1.0 I had gotten a thermoelectric cooler and a heatsink and fan but found that this did not have the required energy to chill six bottles.